---
title: "AI and Art"
permalink: /geeks/essay/ai-and-art
layout: posts
categories: "Geeks"
tags:
- Essay
---
<span style = "font-size: 20px; font-weight: 700;"> 
AI and Art
</span>  

Recently, I had an excellent opportunity to talk to people who work with AI and art.
The conversation was full of insights that I hadn't considered before. It inspired me to write about using AIs to create art.  

The most interesting thought from the conversation was that AI algorithms can be interactive works of art itself.
For that kind of "art," the artist's contribution will be depend on how much they intervened in the layers of algorithm structures—from models to data sets.  

I assume AI will eventually become a medium of art.
People are becoming proficient in programming, and robust coding aids are making it faster. Soon, we will have a world where artists have the coding knowledge to understand and edit basic AI structures, just like artists nowadays using online designing tools.

I imagine we learn AI for art just like we learn the types of solvent oils and pigments when painting with oil. Then, artists will easily decompose the layers of AI and create a code that produces the desired results according to their taste. In this case, I agree that AI algorithms can be an art. However, I do not agree that images only from AI drawing tools are art.

Art is composed of ideas and implementation. Artists contribute too little to both when they use prompted image generation only for their art. They don't devote their time and bodily action to it.  

Moreover, the data sets for AI generation are all other people's images. When photography appeared, it was controversial whether it was art or not. However, the art world eventually admitted it as art since it involves the artist's commitment - like going to a place and adjusting lights to get a desired frame. At least the camera worked as a mirror, transparently reflecting the artist's thoughts rather than directly mixing up other people's creations.

Telling a story is also essential for art. An artwork's message will only move people's hearts when the creation process suits what the artist wants to say. When a click makes everything, nobody will be moved.

However, if an artist designs AI and uses it appropriately to express his or her thoughts, taking into account AI's characteristics—that it is not good for the environment or may have copyright issues—I think it can be considered art.
